= Compile Kernel =
== How to compile a kernel in gentoo? ==

=== To get the latest kernel run ===
	`emerge -uDNq --with-bdeps=y sys-kernel/gentoo-sources`

=== Change kernel symlink ===
	- By default kernel is symlinked to `/usr/src/linux`
	- To see all the kernels that are currenty installed in the system run
		- `eselect kernel list`
			- It will list all the kernels installed.
			- Currently selected kernel will be appeneded with a *
		- To change the kernel symlink use
			- `eselect kernel set number`
				- After set give the number that you want to use.
				- If you can't remember the numbers run `eselect kernel list` again to get the numbers.

=== Few things before compiling our kernel ===
	- Let's first cd into the kernel source directory by `cd /usr/src/linux`
	- Run `make mrproper` to clean up the last compiled stuff.
	- If you already have an old config copy it to the _/usr/src/linux_
		- `cp /home/s2b/.config/kernel/*.config .config`
			- This where I store my old kernel configs you're location may be different.

=== Let's compile our kernel ===
	- I have a _*12 thread*_ cpu so I'm using _*13*_ (_no. of threads + 1_). Use accordingly.
	- Run `make -j13 menuconfig` to open up the ncurese config menu of kernel.
		- Chosse options only you need.
	- Run `make -j13 modules_prepare` to preaper all the modules.
	- Run `make -j13 && make -j13 modules_install && make -j13 install`
		- `make -j13` to compile the kernel.
		- `make -j13 modules_install` to install all the modules.
		- `make -j13 install` to install everything.
	- Now let's create our initramfs. I'm going to use genkernel to do it.
	- `genkernel --install --kernel-config=/usr/src/linux/.config --compress-initramfs-type=lz4 --microcode-initramfs initramfs`
		- Here `--compress-initramfs-type=lz4` is not needed if you're going to use the deault compression.
		- I'm using _lz4_ because it is faster the other compression algorithms.
			- _lz4_ size is going to be larger in general.

=== Now let's prepare our bootloader ===
	- I use grub.
	- So to update grub to use the newly compiled kernel run.
	- `grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg`

=== Time has come ===
	- If everything went well do a reboot.
	- If everything works fine after the boot.
	- Run `cp .config /home/s2b/.config/kernel/$(uname -r).config`
		- To copy the currently compiled config and save it.
